Name: Sarvesh Virkud
AWS Section
Q1. Create IAM Policy which grants access to S3 bucket Only.
Ans. 
1.	Go to http://aws.amazon.com.
2.	Click on “My Account/Console” and select “Security Credentials”.
3.	Select “Continue to Security Credentials”.
4.	Select “Policies” on the left menu, then click “Create Policy”.
5.	Select “Create Your Own Policy”.
6.	Fill out the following fields:
•	Policy Name
•	Description
•	Policy Document
In the Policy document enter the following code and name it s3-bucket-access:
{
    "Version": "2020-01-20",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                        "s3:GetBucketLocation",
                        "s3:ListAllMyBuckets"
                      ],
            "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::*"
        },
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": "s3:*",
            "Resource": "*"
        }
    ]
}
7.	Your new policy is created after you click “Create Policy”.
8.	Select “Groups” on the left menu bar, and click on “Create New Group”.
9.	Enter a group name, e.g. S3Access.
10.	Search for the policy name that you just created, e.g. s3-bucket-access
11.	Next, select “Create Group”.
12.	Select the group that you just created, e.g. S3Access, and click “Group Actions”. Select “Add Users to Group”.
13.	Then, select your user, e.g. ObjectiveFS, and click “Add Users”.
14.	You can now use your “Access Key ID” and “Secret Access Key” to run ObjectiveFS restricted to a single bucket.

Q2. What will be the outcome of this IAM Policy?
{
"Version": "2012-10-17",
"Statement": [{
"Action": "ec2:*",
"Resource": "*",
"Effect": "Allow"
},
{
"Action": "*",
"Resource": "*",
"Effect": "Deny"
}
]
}
Ans.
Any action on the EC2 instances using any resource, will be allowed as per the mentioned policy (IAM) and for any other action using any resource, this usage will be denied according to the policy.
Q.3 Steps to launch EC2 Instance
Ans. 
To launch an EC2 instance:
i.	Go to AWS Management Console
ii.	Click on create instance
iii.	Select the AMI (OS) required
iv.	Select the type of instance (for example: free tier: t2.micro)
v.	Specify number of instances required
vi.	Specify the storage (30 GB by default)
vii.	Add a tag (key and value). Tags gives us the opportunity to assign an identifying name to our instance
viii.	Configure Security Settings
ix.	Generate a new key pair
x.	Click on Review and Launch
xi.	Then launch
Q4. Steps for Hosting a Static Website on Amazon S3.
Ans. 
1.	For hosting a static website onto S3, first we will need to create a bucket. For creating the bucket, navigate to AWS Management Console and hit Create Bucket. You’ll be prompted to enter a name and a region. After entering the details, Click on create.
2.	Verify the Created Bucket
3.	Now, we need to enable website-hosting, we can do that  by just selecting it from the properties panel on the right.
4.	Then create the html file or page which you want to upload. Set the name of the file to index.html. We can also set an error page if needed. 
After, creating the index.html file, now we have to upload it onto the bucket we created earlier. To upload the file, select your new bucket and hit Start Upload button.
Once you’ve uploaded index.html, it will appear in your bucket. However, you won’t be able to see it in your browser yet because everything in AWS S3 is private by default.
5.	To make the html file public, right-click on index.html and select Make Public.
6.	Now, we can access our page. For that, select index.html in the console and go to the Properties tab.
7.	Clicking the link will take you to your new homepage.

Q5. Steps to create public and private subnets in VPC
Ans.
Step 1: Navigate to “Your VPC” and click on “Create VPC“.
Step 2: Give a name for your VPC, mention the IPv4 CIDR block. Click on “Create”.
Step 3: You will get a message saying that the VPC was created along with the VPC ID.
Step 4: For creating the subnets navigate to “Subnets“, in the “Filter by VPC“, select your VPC and then you will see there are no subnets.
Step 5: Create a subnet named Private. Select your VPC, the Availability Zone, and the IPv4 CIDR block. Click on “Create“.
You will get a message saying “The following Subnet was created” along with the “Subnet ID“. Click on “Close“.
Step 6: Create a Public Subnet, fill it in with all the relevant details as I did for the creating a Private Subnet. Click on “Create“.

You will get a message saying “The following Subnet was created” with the “Subnet ID“. Click on “Close“.
Step 7: Now we have to create an Internet Gateway to make the subnet public.
Navigate to Internet Gateways, click on Create “Internet gateway“.
Give a name to your Internet Gateway. Click on “Create“.
You will get a message saying “The following internet gateway was created”  and the “Internet Gateway ID“. Click on “Close“.
Step 8: Just by creating an Internet Gateway won’t suffice the purpose. You have to attach the Internet Gateway to the VPC.
Select the VPC for which you want to attach your Internet Gateway. Click on “Attach“.
Step 9: Now as you have attached the Internet Gateway to your VPC, it’s time to make rules for managing traffic using Route Table. Navigate to Route Tables, and click on “Create route table“.

i.	Give a name to your Route table and select the VPC for which the Route table will work. Click on “Create“.

ii.	You will get a message “The following Route Table was created” and the “Route Table ID“. Click on “Close“.

Step 10: Now you have a Route table created. Add the routes for managing the traffic. Navigate to “Routes” and click on “Edit routes“.
Click on “Add Routes” and mention the destination 0.0.0.0/0 as you want it to be accessible to Public and then select the target as the Internet Gateway that you created earlier. Click on “Save routes“.

Step 11: Now that the rules are added to the Route table, its time to attach it to the Public Subnet. Select the Public Subnet and navigate to Route Table and click on “Edit route table association“.

Select the Route table and click on “Save“.
You have successfully made the subnet public.
Step 12: This way you can take a long route to create an Amazon VPC with two subnets, a Public and a Private subnet.

GCP Section
Q1. Steps to create VPC and subnets
Ans.
1.	For, creating VPC and subnet in GCP.
2.	Go to the VPC networks page in the Google Cloud Console.
3.	Click on Create VPC network.
4.	Give a Name for the network.
5.	Choose Custom for the Subnet creation mode.
6.	In the New subnet section, specify the following configuration parameters for a subnet:
a)	Provide a Name for the subnet.
b)	Select a Region.
c)	Enter an IP address range. (For E.g. (10.1.2.0/24))
d)	To define a secondary range for the subnet, click Create secondary IP range.
e)	Private Google access: Choose whether to enable Private Google Access for the subnet when you create it or later by editing it.
f)	Flow logs: Choose whether to enable VPC flow logs for the subnet when you create it or later by editing it.
g)	Click Done.
7.	To add more subnets, click Add subnet and repeat the previous steps.
8.	Choose the Dynamic routing mode for the VPC network.
9.	Click Create.


Q2. Steps to create a service account and add IAM roles which grants access to GCE and GCS only.
Ans.
1. To create a service account the user must be granted a service account admin role or the editor primitive role
2. Open service accounts page in console
3. Click select a project and chose your project
4. Click create service account 
5. Enter name, description, role and save
6. Go to roles page 
7. Select organization
8. Create role
9. Enter name, title, description
10. Click add permissions
11. Select the GCE and GCS Services and save
12. Open IAM & Admin page
13. Select project and chose the project and click open
14. Identify the service account to add roles and click edit 
15. Select the roles.

Q3. Steps to create bucket and transfer files from local to GCS using gsutil
Ans:
1.	To create a bucket.
2.	Open Cloud Storage.
3.	Click on Create Bucket.
4.	Enter the bucket information like name, choose standard for storage class and location.
5.	Choose set object level and bucket level permissions.
6.	Click on create.
7.	To copy all my local files to the buckets (GCS).
gsutil cp -r dir gs://my-bucket

Q4. Steps to create GCE VM and deploy nginx.
Ans: 
NGINX is open source software for web serving, reverse proxying, caching, load balancing, media streaming, and more.
Steps are as follows:
1. Go to the VM instances page.
2. Click Create instance.
3. Specify a Name for your instance.
4. In the Container section, select the Deploy a container image to this VM instance checkbox.
5. Specify the Container image to use.
a)	For example, you can specify gcr.io/cloud-marketplace/google/nginx1:1.12 to select an NGINX 1.12 container image from Cloud Launcher.
b)	If you use a container image from Docker Hub, always specify the full Docker image name. For example, specify the following image name to deploy an Apache container image: docker.io/httpd:2.4.
6. Optionally, click advanced container options. For more information, see Configuring options to run your container.
7. Click Create to create the instance, boot the instance, and launch the container.

Linux Section
Q1. Consider a text file which has multi-lines text, output all the lines which has a specific word and also output the total number of occurrences of that word
Ans.
Here is a Shell Script that can be executed on the text file to know the output:
Script
To get the lines in which the word appear:

Echo “Enter file name…”
Read file_name;
Echo “Enter search pattern”
Read search_pattern;
for line in $file_name;
do
	grep –c $search_pattern line;
done 

To get the number of occurrences:
grep -c *word to be searched* *filename*
For e.g.  grep -c foo bar.txt
Foo is the word to be searched in filename bar.txt

Q2. Search for all the files that have a ‘.txt’ extension in the current working directory.
Ans. 
Linux provides us with a simple command to find all files that have a .txt extension in the current working directory.
Command: find . -type f -name "*.txt"
Q3. Execute a specific command in all the subdirectories whose names starts with “aws”. For example, your sub-directories are “aws_1”, “aws_2”, “gcp_1”, “aws_3”., Execute “pwd” command in the directories “aws_1”, “aws_2” and “aws_3”.
Ans. 
Script:
for d in ./*/ ;
do 
	result=${d##*/}
	if [“$result” == “aws%” ]
	then	
		pwd "$d"
	fi
done

Q4. Consider a text file and replace a specific word with any word of your choice
Ans.  
Sed is a Stream Editor used for modifying the files in unix (or linux). Whenever you want to make changes to the file automatically, sed comes in handy to do this. 
Text file:
hello world
hello everyone
Syntax: sed -i 's/original/new/g' file.txt

•	sed = Stream EDitor
•	-i = in-place (i.e. save back to the original file)

The command string:
•	s = the substitute command
•	original = a regular expression describing the word to replace (or just the word itself)
•	new = the text to replace it with
•	g = global (i.e. replace all and not just the first occurrence)
•	file.txt = the file name

Command used: sed -i ‘s/hello/hi/g’ file.txt
Output: 
hi world
hi everyone


Q5. How to find a specific file in the system
Ans.
Find Command:
The “find” command allows you to search for files for which you know the approximate filenames.
To find files that match a specific pattern, we can use the -name argument. You can use filename metacharacters (such as * ), but you should either put an escape character ( \ ) in front of each of them or enclose them in quotes.
For example, if we want to find all the files that start with “pro” in the Documents directory, we would use the cd Documents/ command to change to the Documents directory, and then type the following command:
Command: find . -name pro\*

Locate command:
The locate command is faster than the find command because it uses a previously built database, whereas the find command searches in the real system, through all the actual directories and files. The locate command returns a list of all path names containing the specified group of characters.
The database is updated periodically from cron, but you can also update it yourself at any time so you can obtain up-to-the-minute results. To do this, type the following command at the prompt:
Command: sudo updatedb
If you want to find all files or directories that contain exactly and only your search criteria, use the -b option with the locate command, as follows.
Command: locate -b ‘\mydata’
The backslash in the above command is a globbing character, which provides a way of expanding wildcard characters in a non-specific file name into a set of specific filenames. A wildcard is a symbol that can be replaced by one or more characters when the expression is evaluated. The most common wildcard symbols are the question mark ( ? ), which stands for a single character and the asterisk ( * ), which stands for a contiguous string of characters.





